Welcome back. So
today we're gonna go
ahead and talk about
the while loop
are let's just go ahead
and delete this, also
by the way the reason
why I left this is
because I actually forgot to mention
something if the body is of the for loops
is composed out of a single line than
the curly break the curly braces are not
not mandatory at
all so you can for
example, do this
and let's say that
this one line was the entirety of the
body of the for loop you could just
write it like this, you wouldn't need to
place any curly braces or anything
like that, it would
work without any
problems or whatsoever
just myself in to see.
Ok so let's go ahead
and delete this,
we are not going to
need it I was kinda
hoping that I could
recycle a little bit
of the code but not
not gonna happen so
let's take a look at
the syntax of the
while loop so the same
well very similar
rules pretty much apply
for while loop as well,
so you have written
like this, so while and
then you not brackets but these braces
parentheses and you type in any
conditions condition so there's not
literally a conditions is just
pseudocode so there is going to be a
condition here and
for as long as that
condition evaluates
to true and the body
of the loop will continue to execute the
loop will continue however what the
condition becomes false the loop will
terminate so basically you could
interpret this while
true in fact this
is a legitimate line
of code, while true
although this loop will never terminate it is a forever infinite loop
so to say, every for loop that is.
So the
loop that we have
learned in previous
lecture, the for loop
so every for loop can be transformed
into a while loop and vice versa so
let's say that our for loop would look
like this, so you have I which is the
initializer let's see how the c4
condition and increment then I am c4
increment how would
you ok let's do this
as well but how would
you convert this
to a while loop? how would this look in
terms of a while? well to be somewhat
different I can tell you, the
initializer would go before the loop and
the while loop to go
like this and then
the condition would
go here while the
body along with the
increment would
actually go here so
I will show this in
rather detail once we go
through some examples
but just to get an
idea you see this is
the for loop and this is the
while loop, the initializer
would need to be declared
and initialize here
the condition would be placed here and
the increments for the changes of the
initializer would occur within the while
loop itself right here well they don't
need to actually occur anywhere within
the body of the loop they don't need to
be at the end
specifically that is what
I am trying to actually
state so let's
go ahead and dive
into a short example
this is a fairly
simple subject to
comprehend what you know is always will
be somebody in the discussion section
who's gonna will be there
to assist you in any way
that they can. Anyway let's
go ahead and type in int n
place a semicolon there declare the variable n, I could recycle that, std
cout, I could recycle this as well
enter n and std cin. Ok so this
example looks pretty much the same or
similar or whatever
so all that we're
doing is we're going
to convert the
previous for loop example into a
while loop example more or less the
first portion of the
code along with int
sum I guess I could
have just recycled but
doesn't really matter because this is
the important part of the code which I
would like which I
would really like you
to understand so
what we need to do
first is declare an initializer int I,
remember how before we declared int I
here we're going to declare it outside
of the while loop my apologies my nose
is giving me a bit of
problems today I have
no idea why but oh
well anyway since I
equals one this is the declaration of
the initializer, in here we can
immediately jump into do while loop and
state or condition so I shall be lesser
or equal to n
and now we will open up
the body of the while
loop, so let's go ahead
and use the same
things as before so number, std, cout and
enter, I
number, ok
std, cin, number, semicolon,
this is the same as
before so we're creating
pretty much the same body
as before but you will see the
difference
sum is plus or equal
so I have explained
this part of the previous
tutorial, number
in here here is the
key differences
so here we will
increment the actual
initializer and this is how it will go I
shall become I should be declare and
initialize to 1, I should be taken
into the loop and evaluated against n
which will be the integer that the user will enter for as long as
I is lesser or equal to that particular
integer the body of the loop will
continue will be executed and the
iterations of the initializer,
will happen as well once the iterations
have reached the stage where I has
become greater than n, this
condition here will evaluate to false
and the loop will terminate and the
program will continue the program will
not terminate unless you specify it to
terminate the program will continue to
run it'll just go
to the next line of
code after the loop
unless specified
otherwise so, std,
cout, let just do this
formal parts, maybe you
don't even need to
but hey why not? n, I just
want to show that you
will going to get pretty
much the same things and
entered numbers
sum, std, endl, Ok
so let's go ahead
and build and run this. Wow. I
actually managed to
make exactly the
same mistake as before, this is
fascinating isn't it? I made exactly the
same mistake as in the previous tutorial
exactly the same spot
exactly the same
thing I'm one of
those people in life
oh wait, let's, come on, don't do this to me know.
what is the deal? cout was not
declared in this scope
it was declared.
areas cout it was
not declared in
this okkk I'm missing
one of these, ok, there
you go, enter number n,
let's make it through
this time for his number 125 the sum of
three hundred members is eight anyway
what I was trying to
tell you is that I'm
one of those people
with extremely poor
memory from time to time and if you tell
me a joke today if I died laughing to it
you can tell me the same joke tomorrow I
will still die laughing to it
I'm amazing to have as a
friend, very maintain so
to say, very easy to introduce
with a conversation.
Anyway I bet you
farewell and we're gonna
go ahead and jump into
the next tutorial
where we shall continue with this, but
we're gonna jump into the do while loop
which is fairly similar to while as well.